Abstract
In this paper, I investigate public sentiment of governmental surveillance using the Pervasive Connectivity dataset provided by the Pew Research Center. The dataset was obtained via phone interview from August 7, 2013 to September 16, 2013 and consists of a sample of 1,801 adultsresiding in the United States. The dataset was analyzed using Principal Component Analysis using Numpy, a scientific computing library written in the Python programming language. Principal component analysis did not yield data separation; therefore, I was unable to reach any significant conclusion about public sentiment of governmental surveillance. 

Dataset
The Pervasive Connectivity dataset is authentic and provided by a reputable source. The dataset was collected by Princeton Survey Research Associates International via phone interview from August 7, 2013 to September 16, 2013. The phone interviews were conducted in both Spanish and English on adults (age 18 or older) currently residing in the United States. The dataset consists of 1,801 samples, 901 from landline and 900 from cellphone. The dataset was provided in .cvs format by the Pew Research Center and can be found at the following link: http://www.pewinternet.org/datasets/aug-7-sep-16-2013-pervasive-connectivity.

The Pervasive Connectivity dataset contains questions on people's opinions of governmental surveillance programs, their willingness to discuss such programs, and their internet usage, with a focus on social media platforms. The phone survey consisted of 132 questions, some of which were optional dependent upon a respondent's answers to previous questions, leading to an incomplete dataset. Although the dataset did not explicitly categorize questions, I found that each question fell into one of the following categories: demographic, phone information, perceived control of life, internet usage, social associations, governmental surveillance, fear of exclusion.

The demographic category consisted of questions regarding one's identity: sex, marital status, age, race, employment status, income, education, etc. The demographic category contained 13 questions.

The phone information category (containing 14 questions) consisted of questions concerning one's phone type (landline, cellphone, smartphone) and personal phone usage. For example:

Some cell phones are called “smartphones” because of certain features they have. Is your cell phone a smartphone such as an iPhone, Android, Blackberry or Windows phone, or are you not sure?

Some people attach photos to text messages. On an average day, about how many photos do you send and receive by text with other people using your cell phone?

The perceived control of life category (containing 10 questions) consisted of questions concerning how much someone felt in control over their life in the past 30 days. For example:

In the last 30 days, how often have you been able to control irritations in your life – frequently, sometimes, hardly ever, or never?

In the last 30 days, how often have you felt nervous and “stressed” – frequently, sometimes, hardly ever, or never?


The internet usage category (containing 43 questions) consisted of questions regarding how one accesses the internet and how certain social media platforms (Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, LinkedIn, Facebook) are used. For example: 

Do you ever use the internet to use Twitter?

Has anyone ever asked you to remove someone from your Facebook network, or has this not happened?


The social association category (containing 12 questions) consisted of questions regarding whether one knew people who have gone through various events in the last 12 months. For example: 

Do you know someone who has been hospitalized or experienced a serious accident or injury?
Do you know someone who has been fired or laid off?


The government category (containing 22 questions) consisted of questions regarding one's view of governmental surveillance programs and their willingness to discuss such programs in various contexts. For example:

Thinking about the debate over the U.S. government's surveillance programs. Do you favor or oppose a government program to collect nearly all communications in the U.S. as part of anti-terrorism efforts?

If the topic of the government’s surveillance programs came up at work, would you be very willing, somewhat willing, somewhat unwilling, or very unwilling to join in the conversation?

The fear of exclusion category (containing 5 questions) consisted of questions regarding one's desire to fit into a group or fear of being excluded from a group. For example:

Does this describe you very well, somewhat, not much, or not at all?

It is scary to think about not being invited to social gatherings by people I know.

It is important to me to fit into the group I am with.


Analysis

Results

Conclusion

Effort Analysis
* Interest in Data (Why is it that are you knowledgeable about/interested in this data?)
* Data Construction (How much effort is required to construct the dataset?
* Data Novelty (In what ways is looking at this kind of data new or innovative?
* Data Analysis (How much work is needed to analyze the data?)
* Method Novelty (Which methods are most unusual, novel or worthwhile?)
* Challenges (In what ways is the project most challenging?)
* Relationship to Matrix Methods & Modeling (How does the project relate to matrix methods and modeling?)
* Creativity (Which aspects of the project are most unusual or creative?)
*Effort (Which aspects of the report require the most effort?)
